## Authentication Working Group Minutes

Tuesday, 2025/07/22

10:00 am ET

## Attendees:

Terrell Russell, Kory Draughn, Alan King, Martin Flores

## Minutes

### SUMMARY:

DISCUSSION

 - Client library implementations of 4.3 auth flows
   - C++ - native, pam_password, pam_interactive
   - Python - native, pam_password
     - pam_interactive landing soon https://github.com/irods/python-irodsclient/pull/752
   - Java - native, pam_password (via irods4j)
     - pam_interactive in development for irods4j
   - Go - none
 - OIDC/OAuth2 in HTTP API
   - Client mode removed
     - https://github.com/irods/irods_client_http_api/issues/416
   - JWT verification
     - Support for encrypted JWTs (once jwt-cpp is updated enough)
 - Syncing external user lists/groups -> iRODS user table
   - Part of conversation with Sanger as well
   - https://github.com/harrykodden/irods-ldap-sync 
   - https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7644 SCIM
     - iRODS would be a client
     - https://github.com/harrykodden/scim
 - FIPS compliance
   - Would need to remove known MD5 codepaths
     - Obfuscation handshake
     - Checksum algorithm for data objects
 - Next Meeting
   - August 2025
